Q. Why do you think you should be considered for LUMS NOP scholarship? (Minimum 200 words)

Ans: Getting LUMS NOP scholarship will be a life changing opportunity for me as I will be able to access the world class education from the best faculty and especially LUMS' out of box thinking will really help me to research about the pain points and problem in my field. Without NOP scholarship, it will be almost impossible for me to financially afford LUMS' fee as I belong to a middle class family. I believe that quality education should not be limited by financial challenges, and getting NOP scholarship will definitely enable me to dedicate myself to academic and personal growth at LUMS.

I think I should definitely be considered for LUMS NOP scholarship because despite financial challenges and limited resources, I purchased a laptop for myself to learn about computer science. I was able to purchase laptop not because my parents could afford it but because I participated in multiple religious competitions held in my area where I won Rs. 50,000. And with that money, I purchased a laptop for myself instead of wasting that money on irrelevant things. With that laptop, I have been independently learning essential computer science skills such as programming languages to understand how this field works behind the scenes. These skills have made me a good problem solver and an out of box thinker which helped me to build practical projects like AI Teaching Assistant and Live Docs App. I don't just get fascinated by the tip of the iceberg. Rather, I explore the whole iceberg to get a different better perspective.

Upon receiving this scholarship, I will work hard and understand all the computer science concepts better to help my peers and my juniors in grasping the concept as well by organizing informal study groups, collaborative coding sessions, and by concept discussions which will not only help them understanding the concept, it will also strengthen my knowledge about the concept because I believe in growing together and helping others in their journey as well instead of just keeping all the knowledge to myself. I will also participate in hackathons and different computer science related societies with my talented peers to develop a practical solution to real world problems that will help my university community and ultimately people of Pakistan. In addition to all these, I will mentor younger students who are just starting their journey in programming by sharing useful resources with them, guiding them in building practical useful projects, and encouraging them to build something for their country.